docs/COMPILE.md, before:

Compiling/Installing
----

### Debian-based Linux 
You can use [@ryanfortner](https://github.com/ryanfortner)'s apt repository to install precompiled box64 debs, updated every 24 hours. 

```
sudo wget https://ryanfortner.github.io/box64-debs/box64.list -O /etc/apt/sources.list.d/box64.list
wget -qO- https://ryanfortner.github.io/box64-debs/KEY.gpg | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/box64-debs-archive-keyring.gpg
sudo apt update && sudo apt install box64-arm64 -y
```

Alternatively, you can generate your own package using the [instructions below](https://github.com/ptitSeb/box64/blob/main/docs/COMPILE.md#debian-packaging). 

----

### The general approach is:
```
git clone https://github.com/ptitSeb/box64
cd box64
mkdir build; cd build; cmake .. ${OPTIONS}
make -j4  
sudo make install
```
If it's the first install, you also need:
```
sudo systemctl restart systemd-binfmt
```
- You can use `make -j1`, `make -j2` to prevent running out of memory
- You can also add `-DBAD_SIGNAL=ON` to the cmake command if you are on Linux Kernel mixed with Android, like on RK3588 or maybe Termux

#### For instance, if you want to build box64 for Generic ARM64 Linux platforms, it would look like this:
```
git clone https://github.com/ptitSeb/box64
cd box64
mkdir build; cd build; cmake .. -D ARM_DYNAREC=ON -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
make -j4
sudo make install
sudo systemctl restart systemd-binfmt
```
----

#### for RK3399

Using a 64bit OS:
```
-D RK3399=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for RK3588 / RK3588S

Using a 64bit OS:
```
-D RK3588=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for Raspberry Pi 3

Warning, you need a 64bit OS:

If building on the Pi, you will also need a large swap (3 GB+)
[optionally reduce GPU memory to a minimum (e.g. 16 MB) using `raspi-config`
(and reboot) before starting the build]:

You can use e.g. '`make -j4`' to speed up the build, but on a Pi 3 with 1GB memory you will likely
run out of memory at some point and need to run the build again.
Still, this can be faster if your build is attended.

```
-D RPI3ARM64=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
make 
```

#### for Raspberry Pi 4

Warning, you need a 64bit OS:

```
-D RPI4ARM64=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for TEGRA X1

Using a 64bit OS:

```
-D TEGRAX1=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```


#### for ODROID N2/N2+

Using a 64bit OS:

```
-D ODROIDN2=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for Snapdragon

Using a 64bit OS:

```
-D SD845=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

or

```
-D SD888=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

Depending how recent your Snapdragon is

#### for Phytium

Using a 64bit OS:
```
-D PHYTIUM=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for ADLink machines

Using a 64bit OS:
```
-D ADLINK=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for a generic ARM64 machine

Using a 64bit OS:
```
-D ARM64=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for M1

Only test on Asahi for now, using the default "16K page" kernel

```
-D M1=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for LoongArch

Using a 64bit OS:

```
-D LARCH64=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for RISC-V

Using a 64bit OS:

```
-D RV64=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for PowerPC 64 LE

Using a 64bit OS:

```
-D PPC64LE=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for LX2160A

Using a 64bit OS:

```
-D LX2160A=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for x86_64 Linux
```
-D LD80BITS=1 -D NOALIGN=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```
If you encounter some linking errors, try using `NOLOADADDR=ON` (`cmake -D NOLOADADDR=ON; make -j$(nproc)`).

----

### use ccmake

Alternatively, you can **use the curses-bases ccmake (or any other gui frontend for cmake)** to select wich platform to use interactively.

### Customize your build

#### Use ccache if you have it

Add `-DUSE_CCACHE=1` if you have ccache (it's better if you plan to touch the sources)

#### To have some debug info

The `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo` argument makes a build that is both optimized for speed, and has debug information embedded. That way, if you have a crash or try to analyse performance, you'll have some symbols.

#### To have a Trace Enabled build 

To have a trace enabled build (***the interpreter will be slightly slower***), add `-DHAVE_TRACE=1`. But you will need to have the [Zydis library](https://github.com/zyantific/zydis) in your `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` or in the system library folders at runtime. Use version v3.2.1, as later version changed the API and will no longer work with box64

#### To have ARM Dynarec

Dynarec is only available on ARM (for the meantime), Activate it by using `-DARM_DYNAREC=1`.

#### To have a build using less memory

You can use ` -DSAVE_MEM` to have a build that will try to save some memory. It's, for now, only increasing the jumptable from 4 level to 5 levels. The added granularity avoid wasting space, but the 1 level more to the jumptable means there is on read from memory more when jumping between blocks.

#### Not building from a git clone

If you are not building from a git clone (for example, downloading a release source code zip from github), you need to use `-DNOGIT=1` from cmake to be able to build (box64 uses git SHA1 to show last commit in version number).

----

Testing
----
A few tests are included with box64.

They can be launched using the `ctest` command.

The tests are very basic and only tests some functionality for now.

----

Debian Packaging
----
Box64 can also be packaged into a .deb file ***using the source code zip from the releases page*** with `DEB_BUILD_OPTIONS=nostrip dpkg-buildpackage -us -uc -nc`. Configure any additional cmake options you might want in `debian/rules`.

Commit message:

Add mold usage to COMPILE.md

docs/COMPILE.md, after:

Compiling/Installing
----

### Debian-based Linux 
You can use [@ryanfortner](https://github.com/ryanfortner)'s apt repository to install precompiled box64 debs, updated every 24 hours. 

```
sudo wget https://ryanfortner.github.io/box64-debs/box64.list -O /etc/apt/sources.list.d/box64.list
wget -qO- https://ryanfortner.github.io/box64-debs/KEY.gpg | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/box64-debs-archive-keyring.gpg
sudo apt update && sudo apt install box64-arm64 -y
```

Alternatively, you can generate your own package using the [instructions below](https://github.com/ptitSeb/box64/blob/main/docs/COMPILE.md#debian-packaging). 

----

### The general approach is:
```
git clone https://github.com/ptitSeb/box64
cd box64
mkdir build; cd build; cmake .. ${OPTIONS}
make -j4  
sudo make install
```
If it's the first install, you also need:
```
sudo systemctl restart systemd-binfmt
```
- You can use `make -j1`, `make -j2` to prevent running out of memory
- You can also add `-DBAD_SIGNAL=ON` to the cmake command if you are on Linux Kernel mixed with Android, like on RK3588 or maybe Termux

#### For instance, if you want to build box64 for Generic ARM64 Linux platforms, it would look like this:
```
git clone https://github.com/ptitSeb/box64
cd box64
mkdir build; cd build; cmake .. -D ARM_DYNAREC=ON -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
make -j4
sudo make install
sudo systemctl restart systemd-binfmt
```
----

#### for RK3399

Using a 64bit OS:
```
-D RK3399=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for RK3588 / RK3588S

Using a 64bit OS:
```
-D RK3588=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for Raspberry Pi 3

Warning, you need a 64bit OS:

If building on the Pi, you will also need a large swap (3 GB+)
[optionally reduce GPU memory to a minimum (e.g. 16 MB) using `raspi-config`
(and reboot) before starting the build]:

You can use e.g. '`make -j4`' to speed up the build, but on a Pi 3 with 1GB memory you will likely
run out of memory at some point and need to run the build again.
Still, this can be faster if your build is attended.

```
-D RPI3ARM64=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
make 
```

#### for Raspberry Pi 4

Warning, you need a 64bit OS:

```
-D RPI4ARM64=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for TEGRA X1

Using a 64bit OS:

```
-D TEGRAX1=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```


#### for ODROID N2/N2+

Using a 64bit OS:

```
-D ODROIDN2=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for Snapdragon

Using a 64bit OS:

```
-D SD845=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

or

```
-D SD888=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

Depending how recent your Snapdragon is

#### for Phytium

Using a 64bit OS:
```
-D PHYTIUM=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for ADLink machines

Using a 64bit OS:
```
-D ADLINK=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for a generic ARM64 machine

Using a 64bit OS:
```
-D ARM64=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for M1

Only test on Asahi for now, using the default "16K page" kernel

```
-D M1=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for LoongArch

Using a 64bit OS:

```
-D LARCH64=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for RISC-V

Using a 64bit OS:

```
-D RV64=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for PowerPC 64 LE

Using a 64bit OS:

```
-D PPC64LE=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for LX2160A

Using a 64bit OS:

```
-D LX2160A=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```

#### for x86_64 Linux
```
-D LD80BITS=1 -D NOALIGN=1 -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
```
If you encounter some linking errors, try using `NOLOADADDR=ON` (`cmake -D NOLOADADDR=ON; make -j$(nproc)`).

----

### use ccmake

Alternatively, you can **use the curses-bases ccmake (or any other gui frontend for cmake)** to select wich platform to use interactively.

### Customize your build

#### Use ccache if you have it

Add `-DUSE_CCACHE=1` if you have ccache (it's better if you plan to touch the sources)

#### To have some debug info

The `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo` argument makes a build that is both optimized for speed, and has debug information embedded. That way, if you have a crash or try to analyse performance, you'll have some symbols.

#### To have a Trace Enabled build 

To have a trace enabled build (***the interpreter will be slightly slower***), add `-DHAVE_TRACE=1`. But you will need to have the [Zydis library](https://github.com/zyantific/zydis) in your `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` or in the system library folders at runtime. Use version v3.2.1, as later version changed the API and will no longer work with box64

#### To have ARM Dynarec

Dynarec is only available on ARM (for the meantime), Activate it by using `-DARM_DYNAREC=1`.

#### To have a build using less memory

You can use ` -DSAVE_MEM` to have a build that will try to save some memory. It's, for now, only increasing the jumptable from 4 level to 5 levels. The added granularity avoid wasting space, but the 1 level more to the jumptable means there is on read from memory more when jumping between blocks.

#### Not building from a git clone

If you are not building from a git clone (for example, downloading a release source code zip from github), you need to use `-DNOGIT=1` from cmake to be able to build (box64 uses git SHA1 to show last commit in version number).

#### Use faster linker

You can use [Mold](https://github.com/rui314/mold) if GNU ld is extremely slow. Add `-DWITH_MOLD=1` to the cmake command. Then run `mold -run make -j`nproc``.

----

Testing
----
A few tests are included with box64.

They can be launched using the `ctest` command.

The tests are very basic and only tests some functionality for now.

----

Debian Packaging
----
Box64 can also be packaged into a .deb file ***using the source code zip from the releases page*** with `DEB_BUILD_OPTIONS=nostrip dpkg-buildpackage -us -uc -nc`. Configure any additional cmake options you might want in `debian/rules`.
