<!--- This file is generated by gen.py, do not edit it directly. -->
Usage
----

There are many environment variables to control Box64's behaviour, which will be listed below by category.

There are 2 types of Box64 builds: the Wine WOW64 build (WowBox64) and the regular Linux build. Beware only some of the environment variables are available in WowBox64.

### Configuration files

In addition to environment variables, if you're using the regular Linux build, Box64 also looks for 2 places for rcfile by default: the system-wide `/etc/box64.box64rc` and user-specific `~/.box64rc`.
While in WowBox64, the configuration file is checked at `%USERPROFILE%/.box64rc` only.
Settings priority follows this order (from highest to lowest): `~/.box64rc` > `/etc/box64.box64rc` > environment variables.

Example configuration:

```
[factorio]
BOX64_DYNAREC_SAFEFLAGS=0
BOX64_DYNAREC_BIGBLOCK=2
BOX64_DYNAREC_FORWARD=1024
BOX64_DYNAREC_CALLRET=1
```

This configuration will apply the specified settings application-wide to any executable named `factorio`.

### Advanced usage for Linux build

1. **Wildcard Matching**

   Asterisks (`*`) can be used for basic pattern matching in application names. For instance, `[*setup*]` will match any program containing "setup" in its name. Note this implements simple wildcard matching rather than full regex support.
2. **Custom Configuration File**

   The `BOX64_RCFILE` environment variable can specify an alternative configuration file instead of the default `/etc/box64.box64rc`.
3. **Per-File Settings**

   Sections starting with `/` apply to specific files. For example:
   ```
   [/d3d9.dll]
   BOX64_DYNAREC_SAFEFLAGS=0
   ```
   These settings will only affect the `d3d9.dll` file. This syntax also works for **emulated** Linux libraries, e.g., `[/libstdc++.so.6]`.

----

## Performance

### BOX64_DYNAREC

Enable/disable the Dynamic Recompiler (a.k.a DynaRec). This option defaults to 1 if it's enabled in the build options for a supported architecture. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Disable DynaRec. 
 * 1: Enable DynaRec. 

### BOX64_DYNAREC_ALIGNED_ATOMICS

Generate aligned atomics only (only available on Arm64 for now). Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Generate unaligned atomics handling code. [Default]
 * 1: Generate aligned atomics only, which is faster and smaller code size, but will cause SIGBUS for LOCK prefixed opcodes operating on unaligned data addresses. 

### BOX64_DYNAREC_BIGBLOCK

Enable building bigger DynaRec code blocks for better performance. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Do not try to build block as big as possible, suitable for programs using lots of threads and JIT, like Unity. 
 * 1: Build Dynarec block as big as possible. 
 * 2: Build Dynarec block bigger, do not stop when block overlaps, but only for blocks in elf memory. [Default]
 * 3: Build Dynarec block bigger, do not stop when block overlaps, for all type of memory, useful for wine programs. 

### BOX64_DYNAREC_CALLRET

Optimize CALL/RET opcodes. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Do not optimize CALL/RET, use jump table. [Default]
 * 1: Try to optimize CALL/RET, skipping the jump table when possible. 
 * 2: Try to optimize CALL/RET, skipping the jump table when possible, adding code to handle return to dirty/modified block. Does not work on WowBox64. 

### BOX64_DYNAREC_DF

Enable or disable the use of deferred flags. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Disable the use of deferred flags. 
 * 1: Enable the use of deferred flags. [Default]

### BOX64_DYNAREC_DIRTY

Allow continue running a block that is unprotected and potentially dirty.

 * 0: Do not allow continue running a block that is unprotected and potentially dirty. [Default]
 * 1: Allow continue to run a dynablock that write data in the same page as code. It can gets faster in loading time of some game but can also get unexpected crashes. 
 * 2: Will also, when it detect an HotPage, flag that page as NEVERCLEAN, and so it will not be write protected but Block build from that page will always be tested. It can be faster that way (but soem SMC case might not be trapped). 

### BOX64_DYNAREC_FASTNAN

Enable or disable fast NaN handling. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Precisely emulate the -NaN generation like on x86. 
 * 1: Do not do anything special with -NAN generation, faster. [Default]

### BOX64_DYNAREC_FASTROUND

Enable or disable fast rounding. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Generate float/double -> int rounding and use current rounding mode for float/double computation like on x86. 
 * 1: Do not do anything special with edge case rounding, faster. [Default]
 * 2: Generate float/double -> int rounding using current rounding mode for float/double computation like on x86, but use fast int -> float/double conversion. 

### BOX64_DYNAREC_FORWARD

Define max allowed forward value when building block. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: No forward value. When current block ends, do not try to go further even if there are previous forward jumps. 
 * 128: Allow up to 128 bytes of gap between end of the block and the next forward jump. [Default]
 * XXXX: Allow up to XXXX bytes of gap between end of the block and the next forward jump. 

### BOX64_DYNAREC_NATIVEFLAGS

Enable or disable the use of native flags. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Do not use native flags. 
 * 1: Use native flags when possible. [Default]

### BOX64_DYNAREC_PAUSE

Enable x86 PAUSE emulation, may help the performance of spinlocks. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Ignore x86 PAUSE instruction. [Default]
 * 1: Use YIELD to emulate x86 PAUSE instruction. 
 * 2: Use WFI to emulate x86 PAUSE instruction. 
 * 3: Use SEVL+WFE to emulate x86 PAUSE instruction. 

### BOX64_DYNAREC_SAFEFLAGS

Behaviour of flags emulation on CALL/RET opcodes and other edge cases. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Treat CALL/RET as if it never needs any flags. 
 * 1: Most of RETs will need flags, most of CALLs will not. [Default]
 * 2: All CALL/RET will need flags. All edge cases are also handled. 

### BOX64_DYNAREC_STRONGMEM

Enable the emulation of x86 strong memory model. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Do not try anything special. [Default]
 * 1: Enable some memory barriers when writing to memory to emulate the x86 strong memory model in a limited way. 
 * 2: All in 1, plus memory barriers on SIMD instructions. 
 * 3: All in 2, plus more memory barriers on a regular basis. 

### BOX64_DYNAREC_VOLATILE_METADATA

Use volatile metadata parsed from PE files, only valid for 64bit Windows games.

 * 0: Do not use volatile metadata. 
 * 1: Use volatile metadata, which will guide Box64 for better strong memory emulation. [Default]

### BOX64_DYNAREC_WAIT

Wait or not for the building of a DynaRec code block to be ready. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Do not wait and use interpreter instead, might speedup a bit on massive multithread or JIT programs. 
 * 1: Wait for a DynaRec code block to be ready. [Default]

### BOX64_DYNAREC_WEAKBARRIER

Tweak the memory barriers to reduce the performance impact by strong memory emualtion. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Use regular safe barrier. 
 * 1: Use weak barriers to have more performance boost. [Default]
 * 2: All in 1, plus disabled the last write barriers. 

### BOX64_DYNACACHE

Enable/disable the Dynamic Recompiler Cache (a.k.a DynaCache). This option defaults to 2 (to read cache if present but not generate any). DynaCache write file to home folder by default, and can grow without limit.

 * 0: Disable DynaCache. 
 * 1: Enable DynaCache. 
 * 2: Use DynaCache files if present, but do not generate new one. [Default]

### BOX64_DYNACACHE_FOLDER

Set the folder for DynaCache files. Default is $XDG_CACHE_HOME/box64 or $HOME/.cache/box64 if $XDG_CACHE_HOME is not set.

 * XXXX: Use folder XXXX for DynaCache files. 

### BOX64_DYNACACHE_MIN

Minimum size, in KB, for a DynaCache to be written to disk. Default size is 350KB

 * XXXX: Set a minimum size of XXXX KB of Dynarec code to write the dynacache to disk. Will not be saved to disk else. 
 * 350: A size of 350 KB is the default value. [Default]

### BOX64_MMAP32

Force 32-bit compatible memory mappings on 64-bit programs that run 32-bit code (like Wine WOW64), can improve performance.

 * 0: Do not force 32-bit memory mappings. 
 * 1: Force 32-bit memory mappings. [Default]

### BOX64_NODYNAREC

Forbid dynablock creation in the address range specified, helpful for debugging behaviour difference between Dynarec and Interpreter. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0xXXXXXXXX-0xYYYYYYYY: Define the range where dynablock creation is forbidden (inclusive-exclusive). 

### BOX64_RDTSC_1GHZ

Use hardware counter for rdtsc if available.

 * 0: Use hardware counter for rdtsc opcode if available. [Default]
 * 1: Use hardware counter for rdtsc if and only if precision is at least 1GHz. 

## Libraries

### BOX64_ADDLIBS

Add extras to the needed libraries list, rarely needed.

 * XXXX: Add library XXXX to the needed libraries list. 
 * XXXX:YYYY:ZZZZ: Add library XXXX, YYYY and ZZZZ to the needed libraries list. 

### BOX64_ALLOWMISSINGLIBS

Allow missing libraries to be ignored.

 * 0: Do not allow missing libraries. [Default]
 * 1: Allow missing libraries. 

### BOX64_EMULATED_LIBS

Force the use of emulated libraries.

 * XXXX: Force the use of emulated library XXXX. 
 * XXXX:YYYY:ZZZZ: Force the use of emulated libraries XXXX, YYYY and ZZZZ. 

### BOX64_LD_LIBRARY_PATH

Path to look for x86_64 libraries.

 * XXXX: Add path XXXX to the library path. 

### BOX64_LD_PRELOAD

Force loading libraries with the binary.

 * XXXX: Force the loading of library XXXX. 
 * XXXX:YYYY: Force the loading of libraries XXXX and YYYY. 

### BOX64_LIBGL

Set the name for libGL.

 * libXXXX: Set the name for libGL to libXXXX. 
 * /path/to/libXXXX: Set the name and path for libGL to /path/to/libXXXX, you can also use SDL_VIDEO_GL_DRIVER. 

### BOX64_NOGTK

Do not load wrapped GTK libraries.

 * 0: Load wrapped GTK libraries. [Default]
 * 1: Do not load wrapped GTK libraries. 

### BOX64_NOPULSE

Do not load PulseAudio libraries (both native and x86_64).

 * 0: Load PulseAudio libraries. [Default]
 * 1: Do not load PulseAudio libraries. 

### BOX64_NOVULKAN

Do not load Vulkan libraries.

 * 0: Load Vulkan libraries. [Default]
 * 1: Do not load Vulkan libraries, both native and x86_64. 

### BOX64_PREFER_EMULATED

Prefer emulated libraries over native ones.

 * 0: Prefer native libraries over emulated ones. [Default]
 * 1: Prefer emulated libraries over native ones. 

### BOX64_PREFER_WRAPPED

Prefer wrapped libs first even if the lib is specified with absolute path.

 * 0: Prefer libs with absolute path over wrapped ones. [Default]
 * 1: Prefer wrapped libs first even if the lib is specified with absolute path. 

### BOX64_WRAP_EGL

Prefer wrapped libs for EGL and GLESv2.

 * 0: Prefer emulated libs for EGL and GLESv2. [Default]
 * 1: Prefer wrapped libs for EGL and GLESv2. 

## Arguments

### BOX64_ARGS

Arguments to pass to the guest program, only valid if there is no existing arguments.

 * XXXX: Pass argument XXXX to the program. 
 * XXXX YYYY ZZZZ: Pass arguments XXXX, YYYY and ZZZZ to the guest program. 

### BOX64_CEFDISABLEGPU

Add -cef-disable-gpu argument to the guest program.

 * 0: Does nothing. [Default]
 * 1: Add -cef-disable-gpu argument to the guest program. 

### BOX64_CEFDISABLEGPUCOMPOSITOR

Add -cef-disable-gpu-compositor argument to the guest program.

 * 0: Does nothing. [Default]
 * 1: Add -cef-disable-gpu-compositor argument to the guest program. 

### BOX64_INSERT_ARGS

Prepend arguments to the command line.

 * XXXX: Prepend argument XXXX to the program. 
 * XXXX YYYY ZZZZ: Prepend arguments XXXX, YYYY and ZZZZ to the guest program. 

### BOX64_INPROCESSGPU

Add --in-process-gpu argument to the guest program.

 * 0: Does nothing. [Default]
 * 1: Add --in-process-gpu argument to the guest program. 

### BOX64_NOSANDBOX

Add --no-sandbox argument to the guest program.

 * 0: Does nothing. [Default]
 * 1: Add --no-sandbox argument to the guest program. 

## Compatibility

### BOX64_AVX

Expose AVX extension to CPUID and cpuinfo file. Default value is 2 on Arm64 because it's fully implemented in DynaRec, 0 otherwise. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Do not expose AVX capabilities. 
 * 1: Expose AVX, BMI1, F16C and VAES extensions to CPUID and cpuinfo file. 
 * 2: All in 1, plus AVX2, BMI2, FMA, ADX,VPCLMULQDQ and RDRAND extensions. 

### BOX64_BASH

Path to the bash executable.

 * XXXX: Use bash executable at path XXXX. 

### BOX64_CPUTYPE

Specify the CPU type to emulate. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Emulate a Intel CPU Model. [Default]
 * 1: Emulate a AMD CPU Model. 

### BOX64_CRASHHANDLER

Use a dummy crash handler or not.

 * 0: Use emulated crashhandler.so library if nedded. 
 * 1: Use an internal dummy (empty) crashhandler.so library. [Default]

### BOX64_DYNAREC_BLEEDING_EDGE

Detect MonoBleedingEdge and apply conservative settings.

 * 0: Do not detect MonoBleedingEdge. 
 * 1: Detect MonoBleedingEdge and apply BOX64_DYNAREC_BIGBLOCK=0 BOX64_DYNAREC_STRONGMEM=1 when detected. [Default]

### BOX64_DYNAREC_DIV0

Enable or disable the generation of division-by-zero exception. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Do not generate the division-by-zero exception. [Default]
 * 1: Generate the division-by-zero exception. 

### BOX64_DYNAREC_TBB

Enable or disable libtbb detection.

 * 0: Do not detect libtbb. 
 * 1: Detect libtbb and apply conservative settings. [Default]

### BOX64_DYNAREC_X87DOUBLE

Force the use of float/double for x87 emulation. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Try to use float when possible for x87 emulation. [Default]
 * 1: Only use Double for x87 emulation. 
 * 2: Check Precision Control low precision on x87 emulation. 

### BOX64_EXIT

Just exit, do not try to run the program.

 * 0: Does nothing. [Default]
 * 1: Just exit. 

### BOX64_FIX_64BIT_INODES

Fix 64bit inodes.

 * 0: Do not fix 64bit inodes. [Default]
 * 1: Fix 64bit inodes. 

### BOX64_IGNOREINT3

Ignore INT3 instructions.

 * 0: Trigger a TRAP signal if a handler is present. [Default]
 * 1: Skip the opcode silently. 

### BOX64_JVM

Detect libjvm and apply conservative settings.

 * 0: Does nothing. 
 * 1: Detect libjvm, and apply BOX64_DYNAREC_BIGBLOCK=0 BOX64_DYNAREC_STRONGMEM=1 BOX64_SSE42=0 when detected. [Default]

### BOX64_LIBCEF

Detect libcef and apply BOX64_MALLOC_HACK settings.

 * 0: Does nothing. 
 * 1: Detect libcef, and apply BOX64_MALLOC_HACK=2 if detected. [Default]

### BOX64_MALLOC_HACK

Behaviour when hooking malloc operators.

 * 0: Don't allow malloc operator to be redirected, rewriting code to use regular function. [Default]
 * 1: Allow malloc operator to be redirected. 
 * 2: Like 0, but track special mmap/free (some redirected functions are inlined and cannot be redirected). 

### BOX64_MAXCPU

Maximum CPU cores exposed. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Use the actual number of CPU cores. [Default]
 * XXXX: Use XXXX CPU cores. 

### BOX64_NORCFILES

Do not load any rc files.

 * 0: Load rc files. [Default]
 * 1: Do not load any rc files. 

### BOX64_PATH

Path to look for x86_64 binaries.

 * XXXX: Add path XXXX to the binary path. 

### BOX64_RCFILE

Path to the rc file to load.

 * XXXX: Load the rc file XXXX, default rc files will not be loaded. 

### BOX64_RESERVE_HIGH

Reserve high memory area for the program, always enabled on Box32.

 * 0: Do not reserve high memory area for the program. [Default]
 * 1: Reserve high memory area for the program. 

### BOX64_SDL2_JGUID

Use a workaround for SDL_GetJoystickGUIDInfo function for wrapped SDL2.

 * 0: Does nothing. [Default]
 * 1: Use a workaround for SDL_GetJoystickGUIDInfo function for wrapped SDL2. 

### BOX64_SHAEXT

Expose SHAEXT (a.k.a. SHA_NI) capabilities.

 * 0: Do not expose SHAEXT capabilities. 
 * 1: Expose SHAEXT capabilities. [Default]

### BOX64_SSE_FLUSHTO0

Behaviour of SSE Flush to 0 flags. Also tracking SSE exception flags Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Just track the flag. [Default]
 * 1: Apply SSE Flush to 0 flag directly. Also reflect SSE exception flags in Dynarec (if available) 

### BOX64_SSE42

Expose SSE4.2 capabilities. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Do not expose SSE4.2 capabilities. 
 * 1: Expose SSE4.2 capabilities. [Default]

### BOX64_SYNC_ROUNDING

Synchronize rounding mode between x86 and native.

 * 0: Do not synchronize rounding mode. [Default]
 * 1: Synchronize rounding mode between x86 and native. 

### BOX64_UNITYPLAYER

Detect UnityPlayer and apply conservative settings.

 * 0: Does nothing. 
 * 1: Detect UnityPlayer, and apply BOX64_DYNAREC_STRONGMEM=1 when detected. [Default]

### BOX64_X11GLX

Force Xorg GLX extension to be present.

 * 0: Do not force Xorg GLX extension to be present. [Default]
 * 1: Require Xorg GLX extension when using XQueryExtension. 

### BOX64_X11SYNC

Force synchronized operation on X11 display.

 * 0: Do not force synchronized operation on X11 display. [Default]
 * 1: Force synchronized operation on X11 display. 

### BOX64_X11THREADS

Call XInitThreads when loading X11. This is mostly for old Loki games with the Loki_Compat library.

 * 0: Do not call XInitThreads. [Default]
 * 1: Call XInitThreads as soon as libX11 is loaded. 

### BOX64_X87_NO80BITS

Behavoiur of x87 80bits long double. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Try to handle 80bits long double as precise as possible. [Default]
 * 1: Use 64bits double for x87. 

## Debugging

### BOX64_DLSYM_ERROR

Enable or disable the logging of dlsym errors.

 * 0: Disable the logging of dlsym errors. [Default]
 * 1: Enable the logging of dlsym errors. 

### BOX64_DUMP

Dump elfloader debug information. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Do not dump elfloader debug information. [Default]
 * 1: Dump elfloader debug information. 

### BOX64_DYNAREC_DUMP

Enable DynaRec dump. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Do not dump DynaRec blocks. [Default]
 * 1: Dump DynaRec blocks. 
 * 2: Dump DynaRec blocks with some colors. 

### BOX64_DYNAREC_DUMP_RANGE

Dump DynaRec blocks in the specified range. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0xXXXXXXXX-0xYYYYYYYY: Define the range where dynablock gets dumped (inclusive-exclusive). 

### BOX64_DYNAREC_GDBJIT

The GDBJIT debugging support, only available on build with `-DGDBJIT=ON`, enable it with gdb command: jit-reader-load /usr/local/lib/libbox64gdbjitreader.so.

 * 0: Dynarec will not generate GDBJIT debuginfo. [Default]
 * 1: Dynarec will generate GDBJIT debuginfo. 
 * 2: Dynarec will generate detailed GDBJIT debuginfo with internal state. 
 * 3: Dynarec will register detailed GDBJIT debuginfo only for dynablocks that the guest program trap into, greatly improving performance. 
 * 0xXXXXXXX-0xYYYYYYY: Define the range where Dynarec will generate detailed GDBJIT debuginfo with internal state. 

### BOX64_DYNAREC_LOG

Disable or enable DynaRec logs. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Disable DynaRec logs. [Default]
 * 1: Enable minimal DynaRec logs. 
 * 2: Enable debug level DynaRec logs. 
 * 3: Enable verbose level DynaRec logs. 

### BOX64_DYNAREC_MISSING

Print missing opcodes. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Do not print the missing opcode. [Default]
 * 1: Print missing opcodes. 
 * 2: Print the fallback to scalar opcodes, only valid on RISC-V. 

### BOX64_DYNAREC_PERFMAP

Generate map file for Linux perf tool.

 * 0: Dynarec will not generate perf map. [Default]
 * 1: Dynarec will generate perf map. 

### BOX64_DYNAREC_TEST

Enable DynaRec execution comparison with the interpreter, very slow, only for testing. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: No comparison. [Default]
 * 1: Each opcode runs on interpreter and on Dynarec, regs and memory are compared and printed when they differ. 
 * 0xXXXXXXXX-0xYYYYYYYY: Define the range where dynarec is tested (inclusive-exclusive). 

### BOX64_DYNAREC_TRACE

Enable or disable DynaRec trace.

 * 0: Do not trace DynaRec blocks. [Default]
 * 1: Trace DynaRec blocks, will slow down the program a lot and generates huge logs. 

### BOX64_JITGDB

Launch gdb or not for SIGSEGV, SIGILL, and SIGBUS.

 * 0: Just print the message when the signal is caught. [Default]
 * 1: Launch gdb when a SIGSEGV, SIGILL or SIGBUS signal is trapped, attached to the offending process and go in an endless loop, waiting. Inside gdb, you need to find the correct thread yourself (the one with `my_box64signalhandler` in is stack), then probably need to `finish` 1 or 2 functions (inside `usleep(..)`) and then you'll be in `my_box64signalhandler`, just before the printf of the Segfault message. Then `set waiting=0` to exit the infinite loop. 
 * 2: Launch gdbserver when a SIGSEGV, SIGILL or SIGBUS signal is trapped, attached to the offending process, and go in an endless loop, waiting. Use `gdb /PATH/TO/box64` and then `target remote 127.0.0.1: 1234` to connect to the gdbserver (or use actual IP if not on the machine). After that, the procedure is the same as with `BOX64_JITGDB=1`. 
 * 3: Launch lldb when a SIGSEGV, SIGILL or SIGBUS signal is trapped, attached to the offending process and go in an endless loop, waiting. 

### BOX64_LOAD_ADDR

Set the address where the program is loaded, only active for PIE guest programs.

 * 0xXXXXXXXX: Set the address where the program is loaded. 

### BOX64_LOG

Enable or disable Box64 logs, default value is 0 if stdout is not terminal, 1 otherwise. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Disable Box64 logs. 
 * 1: Enable minimal Box64 logs. 
 * 2: Enable debug level Box64 logs. 
 * 3: Enable verbose level Box64 logs. 

### BOX64_NOBANNER

Disable the Box64 banner. Availble in WowBox64.

 * 0: Show the Box64 banner. 
 * 1: Do not show the Box64 banner. 

### BOX64_NOSIGSEGV

Disable the handling of SIGSEGV.

 * 0: Let the x86 program set sighandler for SIGSEGV. [Default]
 * 1: Disable the handling of SIGSEGV. 

### BOX64_NOSIGILL

Disable the handling of SIGILL.

 * 0: Let the x86 program set sighandler for SIGILL. [Default]
 * 1: Disable the handling of SIGILL. 

### BOX64_ROLLING_LOG

Show last few wrapped function call when a signal is caught.

 * 0: Does nothing. [Default]
 * 1: Show last 16 wrapped function call when a signal is caught. 
 * XXXX: Show last XXXX wrapped function call when a signal is caught. 

### BOX64_SHOWBT

Show native and emulated backtrace when a signal is caught.

 * 0: Does nothing. [Default]
 * 1: Show native and emulated backtrace when a signal is caught. 

### BOX64_SHOWSEGV

Always show SIGSEGV signal detailes.

 * 0: Does nothing. [Default]
 * 1: Always show SIGSEGV signal detailes. 

### BOX64_TRACE_COLOR

Enable or disable colored trace output.

 * 0: Disable colored trace output. [Default]
 * 1: Enable colored trace output. 

### BOX64_TRACE_EMM

Enable or disable EMM (i.e. MMX) trace output.

 * 0: Disable EMM trace output. [Default]
 * 1: Enable EMM trace output. 

### BOX64_TRACE_FILE

Send all log and trace to a file instead of `stdout`.

 * XXXX: Send all log and trace to file XXXX. 
 * XXXX%pid: Send all log and trace to file XXXX with pid appended. 
 * stderr: Send all log and trace to `stderr`. 

### BOX64_TRACE_INIT

Same as BOX64_TRACE but starts the trace immediately.

 * 0: Disable trace output. [Default]
 * 1: Enable trace output. Trace starts before the initialization of dependencies. 
 * symbolname: Enable trace output for `symbolname` only. Trace starts before the initialization of dependencies. 
 * 0xXXXXXXX-0xYYYYYYY: Enable trace output for the range of address (inclusive-exclusive). Trace starts before the initialization of dependencies. 

### BOX64_TRACE_START

Start trace after N opcodes executed.

 * 0: Start trace immediately. [Default]
 * 1: Start trace after 1 opcode executed. 
 * XXXX: Start trace after XXXX opcodes executed. 

### BOX64_TRACE_XMM

Enable or disable XMM (i.e. SSE) trace output.

 * 0: Disable XMM trace output. [Default]
 * 1: Enable XMM trace output. 

### BOX64_TRACE

Only available on box64 build with trace. Adds trace of all instructions executed, along with a register dump.

 * 0: Disable trace output. [Default]
 * 1: Enable trace output. 
 * symbolname: Enable trace output for `symbolname` only. 
 * 0xXXXXXXX-0xYYYYYYY: Enable trace output for the range of address (inclusive-exclusive). 

## Environment

### BOX64_ENV

Add an environment variable.

 * XXXX=yyyy: Add environment variable XXXX with value yyyy. 

### BOX64_ENV[1-5]

Add an environment variable.

 * XXXX=yyyy: Add environment variable XXXX with value yyyy. 

